README.md, before:

dotfiles
========

[sloria's dotfiles](https://github.com/sloria/dotfiles-old), rewritten as Ansible roles. Fully supports MacOSX. Red Hat and Debian support is good but not as complete.

a few neat features
-------------------

- xonsh instead of zsh.
- nice fonts for the terminal and coding.
- iterm2 profile (w/ hotkey, themes, etc.)
- anaconda python (Miniconda 3 distribution).
- alternative Python configuration with pyenv, pip, virtualenv
- a tmux.conf that's pretty neat.
- [tmuxp](https://tmuxp.git-pull.com/en/latest/) for tmux session management
- vim with [vim-plug](https://github.com/junegunn/vim-plug) for plugin management. All configuration in a single file [.vimrc](https://github.com/sloria/dotfiles/blob/master/roles/vim/files/vimrc).
- pluggable. Everything is optional. Fork this. Remove what you don't use. Configure what you do use.
- Mac packages installed with [homebrew][]. Mac apps installed with [homebrew-cask][].
- Useful git aliases
- Optional git commit signing with GPG

prerequisites (install these first)
-----------------------------------

- ansible >= 2.4 (on Linux, [get the latest PPA] (http://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/intro_installation.html#installing-the-control-machine))
- homebrew (If on macOS)
- git (homebrew installable on macOS)
- Latest version of Xcode (If on macOS)

install
-------

- [Fork](https://github.com/sloria/dotfiles/fork) this repo.
- Clone your fork.

```bash
# Replace git url with your fork
# NOTE: It is important that you clone to ~/dotfiles
$ git clone https://github.com/YOU/dotfiles.git ~/dotfiles
$ cd ~/dotfiles
```

- Update the following variables in `group_vars/local` (at a minimum)
    - `full_name`: Your name, which will be attached to commit messages, e.g. "Steven Loria"
    - `git_user`: Your Github username.
    - `git_email`: Your git email address.
- Optional, but recommended: Update `group_vars/local` with the programs you want installed by [homebrew][], [homebrew-cask][], and npm.
    - `osx_homebrew_packages`:  Utilities that don't get installed by the roles.
    - `osx_cask_packages`: Mac Apps you want installed with [homebrew-cask][].
    - `npm_global_packages`: Node utilities.
- Edit `local_env.yml` as you see fit. Remove any roles you don't use. Edit roles that you do use.
- Run the installation script.

```bash
$ ./bin/dot-bootstrap
```

updating your local environment
-------------------------------

Once you have the dotfiles installed you can run the following command to rerun the ansible playbook:

```bash
$ dot-update
```

updating your dotfiles repo
---------------------------

To keep your fork up to date with the `sloria` fork:

```
$ git remote add sloria https://github.com/sloria/dotfiles.git
$ git pull sloria master
```

commands
--------

There are three main commands in the `bin` directory for setting up and updating development environments:

- `dot-bootstrap`: sets up local environment by executing all roles in `local_env.yml`.
- `dot-update`: updates local environment by executing all roles in `local_env.yml` except for the ones tagged with "bootstrap".

special files
-------------

All configuration is done in `~/dotfiles`. Each role may contain (in addition to the typical ansible directories and files) a number of special files

- **role/\*.xsh**: Any files ending in `.xsh` get loaded into your environment.
- **bin/**: Anything in `bin/` will get added to your `$PATH` and be made available everywhere.

notes
-----

**python**		

The `python` topic installs [miniconda](http://conda.pydata.org/miniconda.html). The installation is entirely self-contained, and lives at `~/miniconda`.		

**iterm2**

To import the iterm2 profile, go to your iterm2 preferences, and enable "Load preferences from custom folder" and select the iterm2 folder in the `misc/` directory.

![iterm2 profile](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/1693233/github/dotfiles-iterm2.png)

**macosx keyboard settings**

There are a few keyboard customizations that must be done manually:

- Turning repeat speed up to 11.

![Keyboard settings](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/1693233/github/dotfiles-mac-keys.png "Key repeat settings")


- Mapping Caps Lock to Ctrl.

![Modifier keys](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/1693233/github/dotfiles-mod-keys.png)

what if I only want your vim?
-----------------------------

First make sure you have a sane vim compiled. On MacOSX, the following will do:

```
brew install macvim --HEAD --with-override-system-vim --with-python
```

The following commands will install vim-plug and download my `.vimrc`.

After backing up your `~/.vim` directory and `~/.vimrc`:

```
mkdir -p ~/.vim/autoload
curl -fLo ~/.vim/autoload/plug.vim https://raw.githubusercontent.com/junegunn/vim-plug/master/plug.vim
curl -fLo ~/.vimrc https://raw.githubusercontent.com/sloria/dotfiles/master/roles/vim/files/vimrc
```

You will now be able to open vim and run `:PlugInstall` to install all plugins.


troubleshooting
---------------

If you get an error about Xcode command-line tools, you may need to run

```
sudo xcode-select -s /Applications/Xcode.app/Contents/Developer
```

todo
----

- Full Debian and Red Hat support
- Add more options to `dot` script, e.g. for skipping tasks

[homebrew]: http://brew.sh/
[homebrew-cask]: https://github.com/caskroom/homebrew-cask


license
-------

[MIT Licensed](http://sloria.mit-license.org/).

Commit message:

Manually compared my fork with sloria's and updated my files (#37)
* Manually compared my fork with sloria's and updated my files

* More manual sync, and test on the Ubuntu machine

README.md, after:

dotfiles
========

[sloria's dotfiles](https://github.com/sloria/dotfiles-old), rewritten as Ansible roles. Sets up a full local development environment with a **single command.**

Fully supports macOS. Red Hat and Debian support is good but not as complete.

a few neat features
-------------------

- zsh configured with [prezto](https://github.com/sorin-ionescu/prezto).
- xonsh (Python shell)
- nice fonts for the terminal and coding.
- iterm2 profile (w/ hotkey, themes, etc.)
- python2, python3, pyenv (for managing Python versions), and pyenv-virtualenv (for managing virtualenvs)
- alternative Python configuration with pyenv, pip, virtualenv
- a tmux.conf that's pretty neat.
- [tmuxp](https://tmuxp.git-pull.com/en/latest/) for tmux session management
- vim with [vim-plug](https://github.com/junegunn/vim-plug) for plugin management. All configuration in a single file [.vimrc](https://github.com/sloria/dotfiles/blob/master/roles/vim/files/vimrc).
- pluggable. Everything is optional. Fork this. Remove what you don't use. Configure what you do use.
- Mac packages installed with [homebrew][]. Mac apps installed with [homebrew-cask][].
- Useful git aliases
- Optional git commit signing with GPG

prerequisites (install these first)
-----------------------------------

- ansible >= 2.4 (on Linux, [get the latest PPA] (http://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/intro_installation.html#installing-the-control-machine))
- homebrew (If on macOS)
- git (homebrew installable on macOS)
- Latest version of Xcode (If on macOS)

install
-------

- [Fork](https://github.com/sloria/dotfiles/fork) this repo.
- Clone your fork.

```bash
# Replace git url with your fork
# NOTE: It is important that you clone to ~/dotfiles
git clone https://github.com/YOU/dotfiles.git ~/dotfiles
cd ~/dotfiles
```

- Update the following variables in `group_vars/local` (at a minimum)
    - `full_name`: Your name, which will be attached to commit messages, e.g. "Steven Loria"
    - `git_user`: Your Github username.
    - `git_email`: Your git email address.
- Optional, but recommended: Update `group_vars/local` with the programs you want installed by [homebrew][], [homebrew-cask][], and npm.
    - `mac_homebrew_packages`:  Utilities that don't get installed by the roles.
    - `mac_cask_packages`: Mac Apps you want installed with [homebrew-cask][].
- Edit `local_env.yml` as you see fit. Remove any roles you don't use. Edit roles that you do use.
- Run the installation script.

```bash
./bin/dot-bootstrap
```

updating your local environment
-------------------------------

Once you have the dotfiles installed you can run the following command to rerun the ansible playbook:

```bash
dot-update
```

You can optionally pass role names

```bash
dot-update git python
```

updating your dotfiles repo
---------------------------

To keep your fork up to date with the `sloria` fork:

```
git remote add sloria https://github.com/sloria/dotfiles.git
git pull sloria master
```

commands
--------

There are three main commands in the `bin` directory for setting up and updating development environments:

- `dot-bootstrap`: sets up local environment by executing all roles in `local_env.yml`.
- `dot-update`: updates local environment by executing all roles in `local_env.yml` except for the ones tagged with "bootstrap".

special files
-------------

All configuration is done in `~/dotfiles`. Each role may contain (in addition to the typical ansible directories and files) a number of special files

- **role/\*.zsh**: Any files ending in `.zsh` get loaded into your environment.
- for xonsh: **role/\*.xsh**: Any files ending in `.xsh` get loaded into your environment.
- **bin/**: Anything in `bin/` will get added to your `$PATH` and be made available everywhere.

notes
-----

**iterm2**

To import the iterm2 profile, go to your iterm2 preferences, and enable "Load preferences from custom folder" and select the iterm2 folder in the `misc/` directory.

![iterm2 profile](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2379650/34223487-859f2752-e58d-11e7-8024-9e6af5c1ec4e.png)

**macOS keyboard settings**

There are a few keyboard customizations that must be done manually:

- Turning repeat speed up to 11.

![Keyboard settings](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2379650/34223505-91f95072-e58d-11e7-9b36-78aec4203b0d.png "Key repeat settings")


- Mapping Caps Lock to Ctrl.

![Modifier keys](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2379650/34223523-a2c8e4e4-e58d-11e7-9532-d74b95d8408a.png)

what if I only want your vim?
-----------------------------

First make sure you have a sane vim compiled. On macOS, the following will do:

```
brew install macvim --HEAD --with-override-system-vim
```

The following commands will install vim-plug and download my `.vimrc`.

After backing up your `~/.vim` directory and `~/.vimrc`:

```
mkdir -p ~/.vim/autoload
curl -fLo ~/.vim/autoload/plug.vim https://raw.githubusercontent.com/junegunn/vim-plug/master/plug.vim
curl -fLo ~/.vimrc https://raw.githubusercontent.com/sloria/dotfiles/master/roles/vim/files/vimrc
```

You will now be able to open vim and run `:PlugInstall` to install all plugins.


troubleshooting
---------------

If you get an error about Xcode command-line tools, you may need to run

```
sudo xcode-select -s /Applications/Xcode.app/Contents/Developer
```

todo
----

- Full Debian and Red Hat support

[homebrew]: http://brew.sh/
[homebrew-cask]: https://github.com/caskroom/homebrew-cask


license
-------

[MIT Licensed](http://sloria.mit-license.org/).
